The Joe Rogan experience.
He doesn't look happy. Wow.
Living in 1901.
Yeah. Average life expected. He's 40 years old. Average likes to say,
say like 44, 45, really at that time. I mean,
but if you make it past childbirth, of course you, you have a better,
much better chance of surviving. But, but anyway, he,
he does name his company after his wife.
What's interesting is you wonder whether that was like,
whether she'd be happy about that attracted becomes this hated name in so many
ways, years later, but he's scrapping by.
He actually had tried to start a chemical industry in the late 19th century.
It had burned down and he didn't have any money. He's got these kids,
he's got this family. So like, to your point, I'm kind of,
when I'm reading this, I'm trying to understand how is this company starting?
What's the human story here? How do we get into this mess, you know, money.
And then, you know, we do, when you get, as you said to the fifties and sixties,
these agricultural chemicals become a huge part of their business,
but kind of back to Roundup 70, okay.
2, 4, 5 T. Now, now the lids off, you know,
the government starting to find out about it. People raising alarms,
scientists are talking about how toxic this stuff is.
And you know, they're looking for an alternative,
something that's not as toxic as this stuff.
And that's when John Franz fines, uh, glyphosate, interestingly,
you know, all like the detergent, all, yes, that was a Monsanto product.
Of course it was. But it had,
it had a phosphate based ingredient in it that helped it clean
clothes. But in the sixties,
phosphate based detergents were ending up in waterways and contributing to like
fish, algae blooms and fish death. Yeah.
And so they had to get rid of that phosphate detergent and they had all this
phosphate and they're like, what do we do with all this phosphate, boom,
all detergent, you know,
and all that phosphate ends up becoming the building blocks of Roundup.
Roundup is ultimately coming from elemental phosphorus. Wow, it's crazy. And,
but it was all designed to be healthy.
I know a guy who lived in a community that was, uh,
connected to a golf course and he grew up drinking water from a well and
him and a large number of people in the community got cancer.
And they firmly believe that it was because of whatever
pesticides that they were using or herbicides that they were using on the golf
course, that it leaked into the Wells.
Can I show you what Roundup looks like nowadays? Uh, Jamie, there's a,
there's a map in there.
That's like a map of the country and it's kind of brown and it shows you
kind of Roundup. Um,
mostly it says glyphosate cause that's the active ingredient,
but I just want to show you the change that's happened in the last several years
of glyphosate. So like that's glyphosate,
this comes from the USDS pesticide national synthesis program. Um,
this is what happened with Roundup ready technology. Like we were,
this is 92. So remember I said, Roundup is created in the seventies,
but it's not really used that much, you know, throughout the growing.
It's interesting how it's used so much in California. Yeah.
Proudly application of it that that's,
that the weird farmland on the way up to San Francisco,
if you're driving from LA and you see, you know, like, Joe Biden signs,
that's where they are.
Yep. That's also, you know, the land of like,
like 90% of our almonds, like nine, you know, all of the salad,
everything comes from there and yeah. And so much pesticide use and that valley.
Wow. But look at the Midwest. I mean, it goes from like.
No, almost none, almost very little to swarm swarm.
And that's because you've made crops that are now resistant to
glyphosate.
So you can spray it as much as you need to kill your
weeds. But, um, and to me there's a,
that you had that weed resistance graph going up,
but a fifth grader can tell you, well, wow.
When you spray that much Roundup on something or glyphosate
on something, you're going to start seeing resistance adaptation.
Exactly. Like it's nature of fighting.
Like what's happening with, um, antibiotics.
Where are you seeing these like Murcia,
like these medication resistant staph infections that are insanely difficult to
treat.
Yeah. Just like it, you know, in fact, some of the weed scientists I talked to,
I'll be honest. The, when I first was going to talk at Ohio state that I said,
the weed scientists are talking, I thought, oh, I thought.
Marijuana.
Shut up. I was like, oh, this is cool too.
I want to find out how to make the stronger.
So, but these weed scientists at Ohio state who are great and helped out with a
book, um, fantastic folks, you know, some of those tribes, you know,
they're like glyphosate was like penicillin, man. It was, it was so powerful,
so effective at killing weeds and we burned through it because these weeds
became resistant to it. And so,
and that's where we're at now kind of going back to your point about, um,
chemicals and exposures,
like Roundup was introduced because it was seen as an environmentally
more friendly herbicide at the time and the seventh,
then agent orange and then yeah. Yeah.
You're comparing it against some pretty bad, uh it's like.
Would you like to get punched or shoot you?
And you know, it had to do with, you know, the way it worked and,
and the mechanisms there, but what's happening now because of that resistance.
And Jamie, I hate to bring it up again because it's actually kind of cool.
You get to see this this first time we put it together.
But when that weed resistance takes off, I think it's the next graph after that,
what happens is you take this out, okay, this is, this is what's happening.
I put this together with a friend of mine is data science.
I try to remember that a lot of people are just listening. They're just,
let's say.
A huge percentage is fair enough. So I'll try and describe it.
So what we're looking at is pounds of herbicide per acre of soybeans.
So this is just looking at soybeans as a case study.
And we're looking at the amount of herbicides it's being used on farms per acre
in the U S and specific states, just because they had data for this to,
for us to compare. And what we're seeing is this like explosion and Roundup,
glyphosate, that big dark line going up like that. And notice, look,
we,
we started seeing the decline and all these other herbicides that really toxic
stuff like chlorinated compounds and things like that.
They're going down and down and down, but check out weed resistance, 2004,
two thousand five thousand six, boom,
all those herbicides that were really toxic, including by the way,
the other half of agent orange two,
four D is now being used to try and beat back
Roundup resistant weeds. Wow.
And so last missed crazy.
Watch the entire episode for free only on Spotify.